# Designing-and-Developing-an-Automated-Visual-Question-Answering-System-in-Bangla-Language



Visual Question Answering (VQA) is a computer vision task where a system is given a text-based
question about an image, and it must infer the answer. In recent years several question answering
systems have been developed for some other languages. There are a few question answering
systems for Bangla, one of the low resource languages. The developed systems for Bangla show a
lower accuracy because of scarcity of a large-scale Bangla language text corpus and lack of
investigation of proper machine learning based intelligent techniques. Therefore, an investigation
of machine learning based intelligent techniques is necessary to develop an intelligent QA system
for Bangla language. We will sell our model after completing our project so that so many people
can be benefitted from our system. First smart glasses, Help the visually impaired and blind to
see. It has many features for reading an image or text and translating. Our model is the VAQ
system in Bangla language, we can sell this for smart glasses. Smart glasses have language
capabilities feature, so can add a new language system. Also, our VQA system could provide
information about an image. We will also sell it for a virtual assistant. Today, we cannot imagine
smart devices without virtual assistants. Our model will automatically translate and recognize
images. It is also necessary for Transformer-based learning. Demonstration of RC -based Bengali
question answering system using modern technology like transformer-based learning is essential.
So we will sell our system in this field also. We are identifying some major problems which needs
to be solved and if any better solutions are available which will help all categories of people. We
also figure out the limitations and problems what they have faced previously while implementing
their models. Our goal of the capstone project can be more focused on giving better solutions or
improving their limitations.
